[ Silence ]
>> [Background Music]
And I think many people
today don't know what
to believe anymore.
>> People are basically
going to keep on to
and tell them what
really happened.
>> So like something
is watching me.
>> We weren't given
all the information.
We weren't told the entire story
[ Music ]
>> And now the host
of the nationally syndicated
Coast-to-Coast [applause]AM
and Gaiam TV bring you  Beyond
Belief  with George Noory.
>> [Background Sounds] Well,
welcome to  Beyond Belief.
Look, we're laughing and
smiling now, but by the end
of this program I
guarantee you we won't be.
Probably one of the most
frightening things I've ever
dealt with on this program --
EMPs -- electromagnetic pulses.
What are they?
A detonation by a nuke,
high above our atmosphere;
a coronal mass ejection;
an X-flare from the sun
which literally wipes
out our grid
and everything else with it.
Our special guest
tonight, William Forstchen,
author of  One Second After,
a critically acclaimed book
that Congress should
be reading every day.
William, welcome [applause].
Good to have you with us.
>> Thanks a lot.
>> Have a seat.
You are pretty gutsy,
my friend, coming...
>> Oh, really?
>> ...up with a book like
this and a subject matter
that so many people just
simply don't want to listen to.
It scares them to hear this.
>> Hmm-mm.
>> Explain, first of
all, for everybody;
EMP, what does that mean?
>> EMP, shorthand for
electromagnetic pulse.
It is a by-product of
detonating a nuclear weapon.
The perfect storm scenario
for enemies is to pop one
to three nukes approximately
250 miles above the atmosphere.
In that first microsecond
of detonation,
the gamma ray burst coming off
of the bomb hits the
upper atmosphere,
triggers an electrostatic
discharge that cascades
down to the earth's surface.
One second after, it could take
out the entire power grid
of the United States.
>> Just like that.
>> Like that.
And Congressional
testimony back in '04,
which I base my book upon,
one expert said it would be
like throwing America
back a hundred years.
I disagree because people a
hundred years ago knew how
to live with the technology
of a hundred years ago.
>> Exactly.
>> This would throw us
back a thousand years,
and the estimated
fatality rate for America,
90% by the end of one year.
>> 90%.
>> 90% will perish
in the first year.
>> Not that the pulse and the
explosion would physically kill
people, it's afterward.
It's with the grid down
and everything else.
>> The only people that
would be directly affected
in the first couple of minutes,
and I think about this flying
out here to meet with you...
>> Hmm-mm.
>> ...is walking to that
plane, look at that,
what they call mal
glass cockpit...
>> That's right.
>> Remember Sully?
>> Yeah.
>> He lost his -- but he
still had his hydraulics
and his computer so he was able
to put that plane down safely.
>> That's right.
>> Well, if you lose
all the controls
in a modern airplane you can
jam the stick all you want...
>> And you want --
every plane that's
in the air at that time...
>> Going to go straight down.
>> ...they all go down.
>> It will make 911
look like a...
>> Small.
>> ...small in comparison.
>> An X-flare from
the sun, a big one.
If the sun and the
earth are directly
in front of each other...
>> Hmm-mm.
>> ...so that path is perfect.
>> That could do the same thing.
>> Absolutely, and it's
happening all the time, George.
You and I have chatted a couple
of times before on your show.
Remember about a year ago...
>> Hmm-mm.
>> ...the sun popped one.
Now the sun all of the time is
throwing out what's called CMEs.
That stands for coronal
mass ejection.
They're flaring out all
the time, but the earth is
like a tiny little marble...
>> It's -- yeah.
>> ...three...
>> ...it's a moving target.
>> Yeah. But that --
approximately once every hundred
to 150 years one of those
CMEs slams straight into us,
disrupts the magnetosphere and
can create a global shutdown
of the entire electrical
grid of the world.
>> Did that not happen on this
planet once before during the
era of the telegraph?
>> Yes, 1859.
And I would urge listeners
who might be doubting this
or the folks in the
audience thinking, boy,
George has an interesting
guest here,
look up the Carrington
Event when you get
on the computer later.
Carrington Event --
it happened in 1859.
It hit with such intensity,
telegraphy wires were
melting off of the poles...
>> Unbelievable.
>> ...the railroad ties
were catching on fire.
Now think of how overbuilt
that technology was...
>> Yeah.
>> ...compared to the
microelectronics we're
so dependent upon today.
>> Let's talk about this,
William, in two facets:
one is the nuke;
the other's the sun.
>> Yes.
>> Both, as we just said,
incredible dangers
to us, to our planet.
We're concerned about
North Korea.
>> We should be.
>> We're concerned about
Iran getting nukes.
>> Hmm-mm.
>> We question the ability
to reach the continental
United States with missiles.
We don't have to
worry about that.
All you have to do is
put a nuke on a ship,
launch it above the
atmosphere, and detonate it,
and we create this
horrible scenario.
>> George, the analogy
I give there is
if I was coming home every day
and I'm hearing a neighbor
shouting how he's going
to get me, and I peek over the
fence and he's target practicing
on a picture of my face...
>> Yeah.
>> ...I think I better
start running.
>> I don't think that's
funny if he's doing that.
>> No. Or he's going
to say that he's going
to bathe my child
in nuclear death.
>> Yeah.
>> The Iranians for years,
out in the Caspian Sea,
had them launching missiles
straight up and detonating them
and then claiming, oh,
it was a failed test.
That fits the profile
of how to launch an EMP.
Get a cargo container ship.
Folks might recall
-- remember a couple
of years ago a cargo
container ship from Russia...
>> Yeah.
>> ...got lost for...
>> ...two weeks?
We didn't know where
the heck it was.
>> Exactly.
We didn't know where it was.
>> Parked it in the
Gulf of Mexico, fire --
by the way, we don't have any
air defense systems along the
Gulf of Mexico.
We'd have less than five
minutes to react, then it's up.
>> How would we even
know who the culprit was?
>> There's another major point.
It's not going to be
like December 7th, 1941,
where our guys are
looking up and going,
"There's meatballs
on those planes.
It's the Japanese."
Or even on 911 where
we had the profile
within a matter of hours...
>> Right.
>> ...this is al-Queda.
The cargo ship launches and
then it blows up and sinks?
These weapons...
>> And they're gone.
>> ...could have
been handed off?
>> Yeah.
>> Who do we know has done it?
But it's a first-strike weapon.
That's the key thing.
It can take America down as a
major power player, cripple us,
and 90% of Americans
are dead a year later,
and we might not even
know where it came from.
>> Yet -- that's right.
We cannot retaliate.
We cannot, for example,
our subs, our nuclear subs
that have missiles on them
-- how do you detonate?
How do you launch
when you don't know
who you're launching against?
>> Correct.
And the North Korean profile --
the combination between
North Korea and Iran
with terrorist cells,
with the potential
of Nukes having disappeared
out of Russia in the last 10
to 15 years, that is
a deadly combination.
I am appalled with a policy that
allows North Korea to threaten
and to launch -- the
moment that missile crosses
into international
airspace, take it out.
>> Right, exactly.
And this is not just idle talk.
It's not rhetoric when
someone, as you just mentioned,
threatens your very
existence, creates videos
of your cities burning...
>> Yes.
>> ...in flames...
>> ...you know, you've got
to take that seriously.
And I really wonder what
someone like Putin would do
if the North Koreans
threatened Russia.
I think the guy would
have launched by now.
There are some nations out there
that just won't fool around,
yet we seem to -- look,
I spent nine years
as you know, William,
in the Navy.
I'm not a warmonger
by any means.
I hate war.
But you have to defend yourself.
And that's what a great
defense is supposed to do.
The government's role is to
defend the American people.
And when you have crazed
dictators screaming
that they're going
to annihilate us,
you have got to take
some action.
You cannot say, "Oh,
he's just trying
to bribe us for rice and food."
You've got to do
something about it.
And we're not doing
anything about it.
Is anybody in Congress raising
this issue that you bring
up in one second later?
>> Do you have a delete button,
because I might lose my
temper in about 10 seconds.
>> Guys, do you have
a delete button?
>> Yeah. George, I'm a historian
and my PhD, my specialization,
was in military history and
the history of technology.
And it is so easy
for us now to say,
"If only we had stopped
Hitler in '38."
The handwriting was on the wall.
It wasn't until '45 as we came
in and we found the death camps
that so many people
went, "Oh, my god."
If we had only said to
the Japanese in 1941,
"Don't even think about it."
>> Right.
>> Throughout history
we have faced this
and we dismiss these lunatics,
these rogue regimes, and say,
"Oh, they're really
not a threat."
And then the people who
are telling us that,
they go hide in the
high grass...
>> Hmm-mm.
>> ...a day later...
>> Exactly.
>> ...when the world's
plunged into war.
We could recover
from Pearl Harbor.
We can recover and
we have from 911.
We cannot recover
within our lifetimes
if we're hit by an EMP strike.
It is a game ending -- it's
a first-strike game-ender.
>> Well, as you know, I
spend a lot of time going
between Los Angeles
and Saint Louis.
If you've ever been in the
Midwest during a tornado --
and I've seen the rubble
of Joplin, Missouri,
that had that tragedy
a few years ago --
if people go without
power for three days,
they start going nuts.
How long would it take -- and
we'll talk about the grid,
how long would it take
to get the power restored
under an EMP attack?
>> Hmm-mm.
>> We don't have backup
transformers, right?
>> No.
>> They're very big.
Probably some of them are
made in other countries.
It's not like you have one
readily available to move in.
How long would the power be out?
>> George, I attended a
conference several years ago,
upstate New York, Impact
America, which brought together
about a thousand
specialists on this topic.
It's not just the generators.
Okay. Let's take this glass and
say this is a power generator,
and the one over
there is your home.
There's a hundred miles
of high-tension wires...
>> Exactly.
>> ...substations, and all that.
There is a major vulnerability.
I saw a frightful video of
what happens to those hundreds
of thousands of miles
of high-tension lines
under an EMP strike.
They explode.
>> They cook, don't they?
>> They -- no, right
off the pillars.
>> Yeah.
>> So even if you were able
to preserve your generator,
which is doubtful,
even if you were able
to preserve your equipment
at home, which is doubtful,
you can't get the power out.
Here's a scary estimate
[two knocks].
At the conference a team
had evaluated 500 generating
systems, the major generating
systems east of the Mississippi.
80% will still be
offline five years later.
>> Five years later.
>> So imagine -- what's
the basis of our economy,
and we worry about our
economic times right now,
but imagine if we lost 80% of
our power capacity completely.
>> Frightening.
>> That is...
>> And we have an
old grid system...
>> Right, right.
>> ...that couldn't
withstand hardly anything.
>> Right.
>> We've had power
outages before --
Canada, the Northeast...
>> Hmm-mm.
>> ...for a few days, for
weeks, caused by strange things
that have occurred -- power
transformers blowing up,
trees falling on wires,
and things like that.
Just a year ago in Southern
California, in that region,
three million people
without power.
We couldn't handle it.
>> All of the catastrophes
we have faced --
Katrina was a local event.
I live in Asheville,
North Carolina.
>> As tragic as it was.
Within a day -- I teach at
a small Christian college --
we had truckloads
of supplies going
down to a sister
school in the area.
Trucks -- supplies were coming
in from all over the country.
What do you do when it's
the entire United States
that's down...
>> Can't do it.
>> ...and the transportation
grid is down,
and the communications...
>> You can't do it.
>> ...grid is down, and
the water supply is down,
and the food distribution
system is down,
and the medical supply
systems are down?
>> People will riot.
They'll go crazy.
>> Yes. Yes.
>> Let's take some questions
for William Forstchen.
Who's got some as
we talk about EMPs?
Right now we're talking
about it primarily
from some kind of an attack.
Yes, sir.
>> Thank you for
taking my question.
What can I do to protect my ham
radio, my vehicle, my generator
at home, to keep me up and going
when something like
this happens?
>> Give a highlight
William because we're going
to do a demonstration
at the end...
>> Yes.
>> ...of the program
on what he can do.
But it is fixable in
some cases, right?
>> Yes. Sir, it's
a great question.
Thank you.
When I first started researching
the book I kept thinking
top-down response.
If only I can see our
federal government responding
and then state to local.
In the last couple of years
my view on that has changed.
It's about us.
It's about we, the people.
It's about Americans
being Americans,
which means we become
self-reliant.
And, sir, it's amazing the
number of start-up industries
within the last several years
addressing these type of issues.
We're going to demonstrate
a couple
of little items later
in the show.
There are a tremendous number
of things you can
do to be prepared.
One, to be able to get
through, say, the first 30 days
of any emergency, whether it's
EMP, earthquake, or whatever;
but also a little bit
of long-term planning.
And it's not expensive,
it's doable.
I have become convinced
that we, the people,
we have to act on our own.
Let's not worry about
FEMA coming to save us.
Let's work together as a
team that, if necessary,
we can rebuild our country.
>> Is the bottom line,
William, we're just up a creek
if something like this happens,
and what we really need to do is
to just make sure that
these rogue nations don't do
anything stupid?
Case in point; you know,
we've been in the nuclear era
with Russia for 60 years.
China has joined the club.
Not one has launched.
They're smart enough to know
that if they do we're going
to retaliate in a big
way, and everybody loses.
But some of these lunatics,
these rogue nations
we've been talking about,
who would do these things
in a clandestine
way, they don't care.
It's almost as if they
have nothing to lose.
Those are the entities we
have to be concerned about.
And, honestly, we need to just
take the nuclear capabilities
out of their hands.
>> You hit the core issue.
Ever since the soviets
acquired nuclear devices in 1949
and we got into the
arms race and a couple
of us are old enough to remember
the Cold War and Duck and Cover,
we had what was called
"mutual assured destruction."
>> That's right.
>> If the Soviets launched
at us it's a no-win game
because enough of our
assets will survive
that we will launch back and
I actually say, you know,
I'm kind of glad the
Soviets are atheists
because they were pragmatic
about it, they did not want
to inherit a smoking
ruined world.
So it was a no-win scenario.
So, therefore, against these
nations there was not a launch.
But we are dealing with Iran
where their leader talks
down a well to a hidden ahmad
who is supposedly is
telling him, "end the world."
>> End the world.
>> Yeah.
>> And we have a wacko psycho
in Korea who might decide,
"I'm going to destroy America
just for the hell of it today."
>> Yeah.
>> Neutral shore destruction
doesn't work with these people.
The only thing that does work is
a very aggressive foreign policy
statement upfront, "Don't
even contemplate it."
>> Right.
>> "We'll stop you first."
>> And this is why.
Don't. Let's take another
question for William Forstchen.
Yes sir, way in the back here.
>> Thank you.
William, could you assess
the danger and probability
of a terrorist group
using a non-nuclear device
to induce an EMP?
See, I would rank that as
being a much more highly,
more probable event than
using a nuclear device.
>> That's a good point, sir.
EMP can be generated a
number of different ways.
For example, you can
just go on YouTube,
just look up Ford Taurus EMP,
and you'll see a car that's
toasted up by a non-nuclear EMP.
The strategic drawback
to a non-nuclear EMP is
at best you can generate
a blocks-wide,
perhaps partial city event.
Whereas, the nuke can...
>> Can generate...
>> ...a country-wide
continental event.
So, in terms of particularly
tactical uses, an EMP,
non-nuke -- in fact,
they're already out there.
The one that we have to be very
concerned about is the nuke
which can take out the entire
United States or Europe.
And the perfect scenario
for our foes is to put three
up over the United States:
East, Midwest, West;
lay down a blanket
across the continent,
take the whole grid out.
>> And the damage from a
non-nuke is not, as you said,
not as wide-spread
but it's also not
that effective in the region.
It doesn't cook everything...
>> No.
>> ...for example.
>> We've got high technology.
Let's go to one of our video
questions for William Forstchen.
>> Hey, William.
This is Josh from Brooklyn,
and I was wondering how real
is the threat of an EMP attack?
>> Well...
>> Well, that's a
great question, Josh.
>> It really is.
>> Hello from Brooklyn.
I grew up outside of Newark.
It is real.
There was a very
clear statement made
in the 2004 Congressional study
which is another source I would
recommend people to go to.
Just simply Google 2004
Congressional EMP Commission
to get the full report.
One of the experts on it
said, "I cannot predict when,
but I can tell you
it will happen."
>> It will happen eventually.
>> Most likely in our lifetime.
But then added on in the 2008
report, "When it comes to CME,
a solar event which basically
triggers the same type
of phenomena, that
is inevitable.
And the odds are running
down on us right now.
>> I think you're right.
Let's take one more question
for William Forstchen.
Yes, sir, right here.
>> William, we don't
hear very much about it
in the mainstream media.
Is it being suppressed
by the U.S. Government?
>> Let's just say if
we don't talk about it,
you're not going
to worry about it.
I don't want to get into
the political side on this,
but I think all of us at times
feel tremendous frustration
when we see what we think is a
very crucial news item related
to national defense, foreign
policy, that gets buried
under because some starlet
had another drunken brawl
or whatever [laughter].
We're not going to go near
that any further, all right?
One of the problems,
as conveyed to me
by a remarkable congressman,
Congressman Roscoe Bartlett
out of Maryland, who asked
me to write this book --
and he just so happened
to be gerrymandered
out in the last election
-- is to build a --
the problem with EMP is
there's no constituency.
Very few people know about it.
For example, do you know
that Congress several years
back passed a law forbidding us
from owning chimpanzees?
I'd ask the audience, why?
Well, it's because of
that horrible attack.
Remember several years ago...
>> Of that -- ripped
off the lady's face.
>> Yeah.
>> So, George, if you
ever drop over my house,
the chimpanzee is gone.
You don't have to
worry about it.
>> I don't have to
worry about that.
>> You don't have to
worry about that any more.
Now, yes, we needed that law,
but how many people
does it affect?
One or two?
>> Exactly.
>> Well, Congress and Bartlett
for 12 years kept trying
to get something done on EMP
but nobody was paying attention.
It's almost like if you talk
about EMPing in your forest
and the trees are
falling as well,
and the media isn't
there, it doesn't exist.
>> Well, you know,
let's talk for a moment
about the Boston Marathon
bombing that just occurred.
Who would have suspected
a couple thugs
to put pressure cookers loaded
with bomb-making material
in a knapsack and blow up
the region there, you know,
and kill the number of people
and injure hundreds of others?
Who would have expected that?
But it happened..
>> Yes, it did.
>> And I think it's
the same thing
with a nuke and an EMP attack.
One may not think
it's going to happen.
One may not hope
But one day some moron,
some idiot, is going to use
that capability and
try it and test it.
And that's what we need to
be alert for because our way
of living is over when...
>> Yes.
>> ...something like
that happens.
>> George, and you
notice, for example,
let's deal with the real
horrible tragedy recently
of Newtown or what happened
just outside of Denver...
>> Sure.
>> ...in Aurora.
How the day after the event we
keep saying, "If only, if only,
if only we had done this,
if only we had done that."
And, again, the problem with EMP
is there's no room for saying
"if only" the day after the...
>> You've got one chance.
>> ...event.
And it is to prepare
individually if it is going
to happen, but then also
prepare as a nation to convey
"don't even think about it
because we will stop you
in any way possible."
>> Let's talk about the sun
and a coronal mass ejection.
>> Yes, we can't stop the
sun from doing this, right.
>> And then the possibilities.
You had said 90% of
the population dies.
I want you to paint
that scenario a little
bit later on for us.
And just take it through us, and
let's assume something happens,
and I want you to tell us
what's going on on the planet,
how will we reacting,
what systems are collapsing,
and how people react.
But the sun, we cannot
stop that.
One day, in X-flare
-- we've been lucky.
You know, we have smaller class
flares, then M-class flares,
and then the big ones: the
X-flares, which are then X-1
up to [inaudible], X-15 or 20.
>> Hmm-mm.
>> The higher that number
on the X-scale the more
deadly it is for the planet.
We've been lucky.
Most of the big flares of recent
times have shot off toward
the side.
We weren't in direct
relationship with the sun.
But the day's going to come
when the sun's going to be there
and we're going to be here and
it's going to be a perfect shot.
And if it's a big one, my radio
show's knocked off the air,
and a lot of other things.
Right?
>> That quick.
If that happens, it's gone.
>> It's over for all of us.
>> What am I going to -- well,
what am I going to do later?
>> I know.
What do you do when
it's all done?
>> I'll just stare
at the ceiling.
>> I mean, that's a
very real possibility.
>> Yes.
>> How do you protect
on something like that?
>> That is a scary
question because --
let us say the United States
endured an EMP strike.
We still, I'd like to think,
have some friends
around the world...
>> Who will jump in and help.
>> ...who will jump in.
However, most of all our
high-end electronic equipment
for power distribution
and everything else --
guess where it's made?
>> China.
>> Yeah. Do you think they're
really going to rush boats
over with, "Oh, we
wish to help you."?
But now let's consider
a global event.
Now you remember, the closer
to the Pole you get
the more intense it is.
>> Hmm-mm.
>> The Carrington Event would
most likely have taken things
out all the way down to 25
degrees South, 25 degrees North.
>> But they didn't have a lot
of electronics in those days.
There was just a telegraph.
>> Yeah.
>> Right?
>> So imagine a global-wide
shutdown of power grids
and systems going offline.
>> No image.
>> If you remember that.
>> No television.
>> Right.
>> No radio.
>> No [multiple voices]
command and control.
>> No communications.
No cell phones.
>> Right.
>> No text messaging.
Nothing. Everything's gone.
Every store is tied into
some form of electronics.
There was a power outage
in Saint Louis last
year, lasted six hours.
A local drugstore chain --
the power was knocked out.
They tried to do it manually.
Number one, the young kids
who were working there couldn't
subtract in their heads.
If, you know, somebody gave you
a 20 and your bill was 8.68,
they didn't know that
it was 11.32 in change.
People were lined up like crazy.
It was a disaster.
They shut the store down.
That would happen too.
They don't have cash registers
that function anymore.
You don't have the
old-style anymore
where the lady would
push the button
and it would register on print.
Everything's electronic,
everything.
>> Right. What do you
guys have in your wallets?
>> Credit cards.
>> Yeah.
>> You can't use them.
>> Several weeks ago...
>> ATMs.
>> You remember Cypress?
>> Yeah.
>> Where they had the bank panic
and then they shut
down all the ATMs...
>> All the ATMs.
>> ...and people were panicked.
And in a post-EMP
or CME scenario --
within a matter of hours
people are going to be going,
"I better get my money
out of the bank."
Well, guess what?
Almost all our money
is electronic.
>> Sure.
>> It is gone.
>> And even if you
had physical money
at that time, what good is it?
>> Yeah.
>> Because you can't
buy anything.
>> Yeah.
>> You try to get to a store
when it's a system-wide
blackout.
You can't get in.
>> And even if you do get it,
is the store owner really going
to take that $50 bill from you?
>> And then you get
robbed coming out.
>> Yes.
>> Pandemonium.
>> We're really getting
depressing here, aren't we?
>> I know it.
Well, that's, that's
what I meant.
This is not a program
where we're going
to be smiling and it's not...
>> But it's making people aware.
That's why I...
>> Right. But I guarantee
you, one day, whether it's
from the sun or from a rogue
nation that sets off a nuke
that creates an EMP attack
on us, people are going
to say, "You know what?
I heard about this.
I heard that William
Forstchen talk about that
and I didn't believe him."
But it will be too late.
>> You know my fear?
A mob might be coming
up my driveway saying,
"Because you wrote the book,
this is all your fault."
>> Yeah.
>> So...
>> Well, we know you're
taking care of it.
>> Wait. Well, we know that you
have stuff stashed away there.
>> Yeah.
>> And -- let me segue
on that for a second.
If all of us as Americans
simply adopted the attitude of,
"I've got to be able to take
care of myself for 30 days,"
think of how we could get
over that initial hump if we,
even at our state and
local areas, said, "Okay,
we're going to take some
communications here..."
>> Hmm-mm.
>> "...and proof it so
we can be back online
and directing, commanding
control."
How much easier it would be to
get through those first 30 days
and start getting ourselves
working together as Americans.
Otherwise it's mass
panic within hours.
>> Huge.
>> Yes.
>> Huge. Paint the
scenario for me.
An EMP or a CME hits us.
What's happening?
>> Remember the old Rod
Sterling introduction,
"Presented for your
consideration..."
>> Yeah.
>> ..."an ultimate nightmare."?
Okay. Let's consider like a
Maslow's hierarchy of needs.
Remember it used to be
oxygen and all that.
First day it's going
to go down as,
where does your water come from?
Okay. Well, you have a
well in your backyard.
But that's electrical power.
>> That's electric and
not everybody has a well.
>> I was doing a radio
program a couple of years ago
out of Phoenix where
somebody called up,
was a little dismissive,
and then the weather forecast
came on, and the weather --
another nice day in Phoenix.
It will be 110 this afternoon...
>> Yeah.
>> ...going down to 95 at night.
What happens if Phoenix
is without water?
What happens if Denver
is without?
Well, the entire United
States' water supply system is
electrically dependent not
only for getting to you,
but for going away
and being sanitized...
>> Exactly.
See, but most people
think when they turn
on their spigot the
water just pressures out.
>> Comes out, yes.
>> No. There's an electrical
plant there pushing it
out to the people.
>> So, as we run down this
nightmare scenario, water.
And then within three
to five days we'll start
to see massive outbreaks
of gastrointestinal illness
from water-borne disease.
Two, the average community has
at most about three weeks' worth
of food supply on hand
that's in your refrigerators
which are now starting to decay.
>> Right.
>> It's in your markets
which are starting to decay.
Or it might be on supply trucks.
At the end of 21 days we're
starting to run out of food.
>> Yeah.
>> Your medical.
This is the scary one.
Place a -- I'll bet at least one
person in our studio audience is
on a medication that they're
dependent on as life-sustaining,
or maybe pain control
sustaining.
Your pharmacy will not
be able to supply you.
So if you only have a four-day
supply of a crucial medication
on hand, at the end of four
days you're in trouble.
>> Oh, you're in
trouble, absolutely.
>> About 20% of Americans are
on some sort of anti-depressant
or mood-altering
drug, but about 1% are
on anti-psychotic medications.
What happens to them
within 30 days?
The entire transportation
grid is gone.
Now there's debate
about how many...
>> You're not flying
planes at that point, right
>> No. But some people
say, "Oh, only 10 to 20%
of our cars will break down."
Well, suppose you're on the
interstate at 5 o'clock and 10%
of the cars around
you break down.
>> Yeah.
>> You're up a creek.
>> Sure.
>> And really, the only cars
that would function
are the real old ones.
>> I drew a lot of
my information
as to what would happen
drawing on examples of the Seige
of Stalingraad, the Seige
of Leningrad, where --
and I actually wrote
it into my novel --
where after a month the ration
was down to 700 calories a day
for non-combatants and people
were receiving two slices
of bread, of which a third
to a half of the content
of the bread was wood pulp.
>> Oh, my god.
>> You know why they
were doing that?
Because when the person ate
the wood pulp, the bread, it...
>> They can't stand it.
>> ...swells up their stomach...
>> And they weren't as hungry.
>> They weren't as hungry
as they starved to death.
>> Well, what about this?
The power goes out and
our nuclear power plants,
which are dependent on
cooling, can't cool any more.
So we have meltdowns.
>> Yes.
>> The China Syndrome all
over again at every plant.
So you've got a nuclear problem
at every -- now we got a --
what, 120 nuke plants
in this country?
All of them will have a problem.
>> I have to emphasize
something right here.
This is my disclaimer.
I only work with unclassified
declassified material.
I've asked questions
about nuke plants,
and the people I've asked
this of just stare back
and say, "Next question."
>> They don't want to answer it.
>> But as declassified, as
several have pointed out,
it's built -- suppose
we're able to get this --
to turn the nuke plant back on.
We have to have a tremendous
amount of electricity going
into that plant for days
before we can power up
and we can start pumping
the electric back out.
>>> Hmm-mm.
>> So we might actually
be looking at a resource
to start pumping out that
gigawatts of energy again but,
one, we can't get the energy
in to start it; and, two,
even if we get it start started,
we don't have any
power lines anymore.
>> See, I think the meltdown
[multiple voices] based
on that...
>> The meltdown is terrifying
>> ...is the worse
possibility...
>> Yes.
>> ...for us.
>> The worst.
>> And you will not have a civil
defense system able to warn you
that this power plant 200 miles
away has gone and is putting
out a radioactive plume
that's heading your way,
and you better take shelter.
>> And how many...
>> Consider a world without
communications of that type.
>> How many people, when people
start dying, will simply say,
"I'm checking out; I
don't want to be around."?
And they kill themselves.
>> Suicide rate in
Leningrad was horrific...
>> Yes.
>> ...as it was in Berlin,
during the siege of Berlin
at the end of the war.
And -- I don't want to
get upset about this --
as I wrote this book, my
father was in a nursing home.
He was fighting out the
last months of his life,
going out as a tough old World
War II trooper that he was.
>> Yeah.
>> And I asked the nurse
one day, "If this happened
in the power generators and
our nursing homes went down,
what happens?"
>> They're all gone.
What happens to the people
with Alzheimer's who need
that bracelet on
and to keep them
from wandering out
of the building?
>> And the person
who needs dialysis.
>> Where's my father's pain
medication after 24 hours?
Because they only keep a
limited supply on hand.
That -- in fact, the book --
I dedicated the book to
my father and my daughter.
>> Right. And is that why
in  One Second After
you use a diabetic kid...
>> Yes.
>> ...to explain
what he goes through?
>> Yes. Yes, we have
done remarkable things
with our medical technology
in the last hundred years,
but they're all dependent on
very high-tech applications.
That child -- a diabetic
child would have died 50,
75 years ago.
>> Yeah.
>> But without insulin,
within a matter of weeks.
>> Have we gotten too
dependent on technology?
>> No, in the sense that if
the technology is there we will
use it.
If I ask -- how many of
you will now stand up,
take out your cell phones,
and stamp on them,
and walk out of here?
No. It's become part of
our lives, our GPS's,
our infrastructure,
our Internet.
It's enriched our
lives in so many ways.
But we have not caught up
with the vulnerabilities
to those systems
at the same time.
That is the message
you're getting
out that I'm so grateful for.
>> Part of me, part of me
would like to see the sun kick
out an X-flare that would...
>> He's saying this, not me.
>> I'm saying this -- that would
hit a region of this planet
that might not be too inhabited,
but enough to make the
world look at what happened;
and maybe it would take
out whatever power was
there and things like that.
We need an example.
We need people to
look at this and say,
"This is a real possibility."
And I think most politicians,
William, stick their heads
in the sand and they say,
"This is not going to happen
on my watch so I don't
have to worry about it."
Well, let the guy in the
future worry about it.
Well, you know what?
I just came back from Saint
Louis, saw my six grandchildren
and my three kids,
and I don't want this
to happen to them, you know?
Whether it happens
in my lifetime
or not is not the issue.
What about them and their kids?
And we're not doing
anything for them.
And we need to.
>> The inspiration for writing
the book came from many sources,
and one of them was I'm sitting
up on the stage on
graduation day.
I teach history at
a small college.
I'm looking at my students.
And I will tell you I
got a lump in my throat,
and that was actually --
that's when I started
writing the book, that night.
What's going to happen
to my kids?
They become your kids.
These wonderful 21,
20 year olds,
who are just graduating
from college.
What's going to happen to my...
>> Let's hope.
>> ...what's going to
happen to my little girl?
>> Yeah.
>> I want America to be
better for my children
and grandchildren than
the America my father
and mother gave to me.
>> It's a nightmare.
>> Yeah.
It's almost a mass
extinction situation.
>> It would be a mass
extinction event.
>> Well, we are going to
get into the possibilities
of what we might be
able to do to minimize
that which is really
so important.
But what got you
to write this book?
What was the first
thing that came to you?
I mean, were you an expert in
EMPs when you started this?
>> I studied -- as I mentioned
I got my PhD at Purdue,
military history,
history technology.
I was aware of the strategic
combat use of EMP in the event
of a war with the Soviet Union.
And back in '04 the
commission report came out.
That's what hit me -- Meeting
Congressman Roscoe Bartlett
who lamented to me, "Nobody
paid attention to this report."
>> Yeah.
>> That -- ironically,
that report came
out on the same day the 911
Commission Report came out.
Whoever planned that
should lose their job...
>> Sure.
>> ...because as
Bartlett put it...
>> It got buried, it got buried.
>> He said, "We were
looking backwards
at how the last war started..."
>> Yeah.
>> ..."when this report is
telling us how the next war will
destroy us completely."
And nobody was paying
attention to it.
They were all at the other
end of the building."
That's what inspired me
to start writing the book.
Plus I had an incredible
publisher with Tom Doherty
and Bob Gleason who you know.
>> My buddies, yeah.
>> Yeah. And Saint Martin's
did a superb job on it and --
it took four years, actually.
>> What concerns you the most: a
solar event or a nuke, or both?
I'll give you that out.
>> You know, if it happened
would I know the difference?
>> No. No.
Once the grid goes,
the grid goes.
You know, and people are
concerned about, "Oh, my god.
My power's not on."
>> Yeah.
>> You know.
And what do you do if it's the
dead of winter and something
like that happens
when it's 10 degrees
out on the East Coast
and you have no heat?
You have no heat source.
And I guess that's where
that number, that 90% number,
starts and it grows and I guess
it will be the elderly first
that go?
>> Yes.
>> Little kids?
>> And then what happens to...
>> The nursing homes
-- we have millions
of folks in nursing homes.
I was very aware of that
because of both of my parents.
>> Sure.
>> That's -- they're not
designed for anything other
than a climate control
provided by electricity.
So we know the horror stories of
what happened in nursing homes
with Katrina, where
people were found floating
against the ceiling -- dead.
>> Yeah, yeah.
>> And if that same kind of
event happened in Chicago
in January, how many
would be found frozen
to death a day later?
>> Many.
>> Yes.
>> Millions.
>> You know, George, the last
catastrophe of this scale
of loss, even remotely
like this,
was the American Civil
War 150 years ago.
We, as Americans, do not know
just how intense the suffering
can be triggered by a
war or a catastrophe.
I was in Russia some years ago
where I walked across a field
that was still carpeted
with human bones...
>> Ach.
>> ...from a Stalinist massacre.
>> Yeah. You can just feel that.
>> I could feel them
crunching under my feet
and it was horrifying
to see the --
and to see a child's
doll lying there.
Been out there for 65 years.
We as Americans are blessed.
We live in the greatest,
safest place in the world.
>> So far.
But the number's going to
come up sooner or later.
We got to be ready for it.
>> Let's take some more
questions for William Forstchen.
This is a very real possibility.
I know its a little melancholy.
Yes sir.
>> William, thank you
for taking my questions.
You're, you know,
clearly an expert on this,
letting people know
what could happen.
I'm a regular person, you know,
live in the greater Denver area.
Don't own any firearms.
So do you have some kind of
like a prepping scenario planned
out for maybe you, or your
loved ones, or families,
or what would you suggest?
You know, I myself
am not a prepper,
but I know people that are.
So if something like if a
catastrophe like this were
to happen, how would --
what would the first thing
that maybe you would be doing?
>> So, thank you
for that question
because I want to
clarify something.
Too often in public
media it gets
into this survivalist mentality.
Now I don't like
survivalists all that much
because the survivalist
mentality is,
"I've got mine, George.
You come to my door.
The heck with you.
You're not -- I'm not
going to help you.
Get away from me."
>> And you had a chance, George,
when you didn't do anything.
>> You didn't do
it, so there, there.
The prepper movement which
has emerged in the last three
to four years is far more
about us working together.
How do I get to my
neighbors to work with?
The doctor down the street
-- let's talk about a plan.
And it doesn't cost all that
much to get started in terms
of just getting some extra food
and you can get a 50 pound bag
of rice at one of the
box stores, like $15.
And then, if you're my neighbor,
George, I'll sit down with you.
I'll say, George, I'm
not some missionary
at your doorstep
waving a pamphlet,
but why don't you read
a couple of these books?
>> Yeah.
>> And then let's talk about it.
I will not mention the network
but I have a problem with a show
that deals with preppers.
It makes them all look
like they're wearing tinfoil
hats and they're crazy.
Every prepper I know is
an ordinary person just
like you, sir.
And I'm just an ordinary
guy who had [inaudible].
>> Very serious about
what they doing.
>> But they are very
oriented towards how do we --
hey, try and survive
on your own or try
and survive as a community.
Survive as a community
is a lot easier.
I'm not going to discuss
personal defense and things
like that -- it's a
very sensitive issue --
other than to say if you
make that kind of decision,
for heaven's sake, follow the
law, get the proper training.
That's all I'm going
to say on that.
>> Let's take another video
question for William Forstchen.
Let's flip the switch,
and here we go.
>> Hi, William.
I'm JoAnne.
I live in Los Angeles.
How real is the threat
of a solar flare,
and how long will
we be without power?
>> Ho, ho, ho, ho.
Well?
>> Well, Los Angeles,
JoAnne -- it's real.
>> And a long time.
>> It is a very real
long term scenario.
But even folks in L.A.
can properly prepare.
In spite of what
we're being told,
there's an optical illusion...
>> Right.
>> ...a missile having taken off
the coast a couple of years ago.
>> I remember that, story.
>> Being a prepper
doesn't mean --
and JoAnne can link
us back into the --
this gentleman's question.
It doesn't mean that you're
out in the countryside
and you have a bunker
or you've got 50 acres
and you're growing
this and that.
You can be in a high-rise
in L.A. You could be
out in the farmlands of
Colorado, or up in the Rockies.
It's about community,
community, community.
Working together as
a team, studying --
there's a lot of literature out
there, a lot of good books now
on how to be prepared.
My book is simply a cautionary
novel about what happens
in a small town in
North Carolina.
There are dozens of
good instruction manuals
out there now as well, as to how
to get started, how
to get ready.
And remember, it's just
not for CME or EMP.
It could be earthquake, could
be storms, any number of things.
>> Let's take another question
from the audience for William.
Who's got one?
Yes, way in the back.
>> Thank you for
taking my question.
William, considering
the devastation
that an EMP event would cause,
why wouldn't power
companies be taking steps
in all ways possible
to protect us --
protect their infrastructure
and us from such an event?
>> Ah, well.
>> Ahhhhhh.
>> Really good question.
>> I'm from North Carolina.
I have yet quite to
master the accent.
I mean, the Jersey
does come out,
but there was a big argument
about this in North Carolina
about a year or two ago,
in which a commission
there dismissed the threat.
The bottom line is
the increased cost
to start preparing
our infrastructure is
about 10% to 15% increase.
You've got to replace
an old power line.
>> Quite, and it's
got to be done.
>> Ten to 15% more
you can proof it.
An analogy I give
there is hardening.
If we just harden parts
of our infrastructure
it's like a spider web.
Remember the spider webs,
we'd see in the lawn
in the morning covered in dew?
And if you're a bit of
a wacky kid you have
to put a match under it.
Well, imagine if that
poor spider's in there.
Darn kid again.
But the spider had
hardened only eight or ten
of those threads
that were fireproof.
How much easier to spin
the rest of the thread back
but also provide emergency
linkage along those lines.
The power companies themselves
do not want to invest.
>> They want the
government to do it for them.
>> Right! You got it!
And there's even a bit of a
cynical -- well, if it happens,
we're all messed up anyhow,
and our stockbrokers --
our stockholders
[multiple voices].
>> The sad part about
it is, William,
as you will demonstrate...
>> It's easy.
>> You can do it.
You can fix it.
>> Yes.
>> One more question here.
Who's got one?
Yes, sir.
>> Thank you, William.
Just a question.
You spoke about hardening.
>> Hmm-mm.
>> Are there any methods that
a person could do practically
to harden maybe generators
or any kind
of personal items you might
need for the short term?
>> It just so happens that
Mr. Noory here insisted
that I bring something along
to demonstrate that with.
And, yes.
>> We'll do that soon.
>> And the -- again, I recommend
a number of different manuals.
You can find out there
how to prepare for EMP.
Have back-up parts.
In fact, everybody has
what's called a Faraday Cage
in their house already.
It's called a microwave oven.
You take an old microwave oven.
You can throw some
electronics in it.
Make sure it's properly
grounded and it will survive.
Hardening is not
all that difficult.
Now you might lose you
60-inch television screen,
but there ain't going to be
any signals coming to that
for some time to come.
But everybody should
have in their home,
in a secure Farraday,
F-A-R-A-D-A-Y.
You can find instructions
for that on the Internet.
I have an emergency radio
that runs off batteries
or hand-crank...
>> Or solar.
>> I have it inside
a Faraday bag.
Great to pull out after an
event, so I'm up and running
with news, and advice reports.
>> Thank you for that question.
What are other countries doing?
Is anybody doing
anything about this?
>> Ooh. Most of its classified.
Are they...
>> I mean they all have the
some possible outcome, right?
>> Yes.
>> The sun is the sun
and a nuke is a nuke.
>> I can't answer that.
And at conferences I have asked
or I would have --
what is Russia doing?
What is China doing?
>> What is China doing?
>> Switzerland, I
understand, they're --
well, Switzerland's
always on top of things.
>> Yeah.
>> I don't know.
And see, there as well, it's --
I have very little regard
for the U.N., but they --
if we're dealing with a
global situation like BME...
>> Which is a global fix.
>>...it should be a global
fix and we should be talking
about how do we work
as a global community?
One, to prepare, but secondly,
think of the communications
breakdown and the potential
for global war triggering
within a matter of days
as people are scrambling
for resources...
>> Absolutely.
>> ...or saying, "Wait a minute.
You did this to us --
we'regoing to watch on you."
And the confusion...
>> Total collapse.
>> Yes.
>> Let's do an experiment.
>> Sure.
>> What do you want to do?
>> It just so happens...
>> Well, you told me
to bring my cell phone,
and you have one, too.
>> Yes.
>> Can you tell me what
I'm supposed to do?
>> Okay. Trust us.
We tested this before.
If he calls me the
signal will come through.
This is a Faraday bag.
You can buy it online or
in any number of stores.
I think I got this one
for about five bucks.
You can get them as
big as six feet across.
Nothing up my sleeve.
I got my cell phone in.
Seal it.
>> And now I'm to dial you up?
>> Call me.
>> All right.
>> If it works, it's
going to be embarrassing.
>> We will do that.
Let's see what happens.
Let me put it on speaker.
So maybe we'll hear
[phone ringing] me ringing.
>> Okay [phone ringing].
My phone's not ringing.
>> If it's not [phone
ringing]...
>> Well...
>> Oh, you want to do...
>> Whoa, I knew it
was going to do that!
Yeah.
>> You opened the bag.
>> So I have to open
the bag [phone ringing].
>> Yeah [phone ringing].
>> But the moment I
start to open the bag...
>> There it is.
>> ...it came back on.
That's $5.
>> And what would
you do with this?
>> What would I do with that?
Well, I could put my head
in it if it was big enough,
but this is a perfect thing for
what the one gentleman asked
about -- precious electronics.
>> His ham radio?
>> Ham radio.
Oh, ham radios -- all ham radio
operators know, definitely --
don't have your antenna
hooked up all the time
because that will
feed a signal in.
>> Okay.
>> But if I had ham
radio equipment,
I'd get one of those
six by six bags.
They don't cost that
much relatively speaking.
Stuff it all in there.
This can protect you from
all of your electronics,
from a major CME/EMP event.
And then when you know it's
safe to open them back up,
you pull them out and
you have your systems
up and running again.
>> All right.
Let's talk about the grid.
How do you insulate the
grid from a pulse attack
or a coronal mass ejection?
>> Let's do the analogy again
of here's the generator,
there's your house.
>> All right.
>> That's a long
wire, all right?
And if we took that wire
and put it all together,
that's quite a few
square meters...
>> Hmm-mm.
>> ...of wire.
When you have a discharge
coming down and the thousands
of volts per square meter --
we've all stood underneath
high tension lines.
You could actually
hear them popping.
>> You can hear the buzz.
>> Well, imagine if somebody
get a million more volts popped
out to them.
You're gone, all right?
But suppose we put breakers
at very regular intervals.
>> So the whole thing
doesn't get it you mean.
>> And also, the
breakers you got now --
does it not seem that when
you buy that new hi-def wi TV,
that the next day a lightning
bolt hits next to your house?
>> Yeah.
>> And you go, darn, I should
have gotten the surge arrester.
Current surge arresters
are not good enough...
>> For one of these.
>> ...for one of these.
I mean, we've got to get into
some technical stuff, but the...
>> But is it doable
[multiple voices]?
>> Oh, yes, it is.
You can make surge protectors.
>> How much do you
think it would cost
to completely insulate the
grid in the United States?
And I'm saying that because what
we wasted giving it to banks
and everything else,
the bailout...
>> Plus some groups in Egypt.
>> How much would it cost?
>> I've heard figures
as low as $50 billion.
>> Which is nothing in
the scheme of things.
>> Not compared to some
of the bills we've seen.
In terms of the survival of my
daughter, it's for you and me
and this audience to hear the --
what we've been throwing
[multiple voices] a billion
dollars on.
>> And to keep this country
intact and to minimize that kind
of an attack or that kind of
a catastrophe from the sun,
we would be a strong nation
if we were able to do this.
>> We're not going
to be 100% protected,
but if we can get a 50%
to 75% protection level
on our distribution
and transportation
and control systems...
>> Yes.
>> ...casualty figure would go
from -- think of it, George --
270 million Americans
dead in a year.
People wonder how the
figures seem so absurd.
I remember Dr. Pry -- he's
quite an expert on this --
said, "The old nuclear war
with the Russians would
have been more humane."
>> You know, when
you buy insurance...
>> That's a good one.
>> ...auto insurance,
house insurance...
>> Hmm-mm.
>> ...initially you think
what a waste of money...
>> Until you need it.
>> ...until you need it.
And the reason you buy
insurance is if you need it.
Isn't this a great
insurance policy?
Insulate the grid
>> Would a bank let you
buy a house without...
>> Without.
>> ...insurance?
>> Absolutely not.
>> And...
>> And they're pushing
earthquake insurance now
in California.
They know one day
they're going to get hit
and they want you
covered and protected.
So why don't we just
do it as a nation?
Why doesn't a presidential
candidate, when he's running --
I don't think anyone has ever
addressed this in a campaign.
>> Two candidates have.
>> Okay. Ron Paul?
>> And Newt Gingrich.
>> Okay.
>> Were the only two candidates
who talked about it on -- yes...
>> But the media
scoffed right over it.
>> Yeah. Let me give
you a different analogy.
I just bought a car for my
daughter a couple of years ago.
Of course I went
out and got a car
with a five star safety rating.
>> Sure.
>> What kind of father would
I be if I'm standing there
and the dealer says,
"Okay, the car is 12,000.
I said, well, do me a favor.
Take the airbags out.
>> Yeah.
>> Take the collapsible
column here.
>> Save me a little bit here.
>> You can save me a
couple of thousand bucks
if you get rid of
all this stuff.
What kind of father would I be?
I'm no, load it all in.
So for the cost of getting
a safe car for my daughter,
if we multiply that out across
the entire United States
to every household, we
would have a secure grid
which would protect my
daughter and your kids
and everybody's grandchildren.
>> I would create it as
a tax, not on people,
but on these companies...
>> Yes.
>> ...that provide the power.
And I would say,
"Look, you're going
to amortize this over 20 years."
>> Hmm-mm.
>> "But you're going
to pay for this."
>> Yes.
>> And we're going to do
this as a nation to insulate
and protect this country.
And I think that would be
brilliant because one day one
of these two possibilities
is going to occur.
>> I think of Admiral Halsey
coming into Pearl Harbor
on the evening of December
7th looking at the wreckage
of the American fleet with
his ship, the Enterprise --
description of the bodies
floating in the bay,
being pushed aside by this boat.
>> Yeah.
>> And I cannot quote exactly
what Admiral Halsey said he was
going to do before
this was done.
44 months later he was there
to take their surrender
in Tokyo Harbor with a
thousand ships behind him.
We will not have that
opportunity again
if we get hit by an EMP.
The game is over in
the first second.
>> If the sun sends off a CME...
>> Yes.
>> ...we've got a couple
days on that one, right?
>> Fortunately, a CME moves
slower than the speed of light.
I was up at Goddard
Labs last year talking
with their solar experts.
Has a remarkable crew.
They're dedicate
-- I asked them,
"If the big one is coming,
what do you guys do?"
And they said, "Our duty is
to be here and keep putting
out the information as long
as possible until it hits."
These are our top solar experts.
I said, "And then what?"
>> And we've had
episodes already.
I've received notices...
>> Of course.
>> ...during my show that
we might have disruption
with broadcasting
from smaller flares...
>> Right.
>> ...that take off.
So the big ones, you
know, we have a --
we'd have two days to
do a little preparing.
But that's why we should
be preparing right now.
>> And see, right there you
hit another point: preparing.
We have not run even a
simulation drill, let alone --
I remember one candidate saying,
"We should get a
moderate size town
in America to do a simulation."
>> Shut the power down.
>> ...to shut the
whole grid down...
>> Yeah. And have the media
there, everybody recording this,
showing you what happens to
life if power's down for a --
oh, yeah, I would take care
of the hospitals and
things like that.
But I would monitor people
almost like  The Truman Show.
And just watch them and how
they live, and how they react,
while this is going on.
And I think it would
be startling...
>> I think anybody...
>> ...the end results.
>> ...old enough
in the audience --
because I remember just before
the Cuban Missile Crisis
in [inaudible] where
we did simulate.
>> We used to have those...
>> Duck and cover.
>> ...those duck and cover
alerts in school and everything
and we got to sit down, or
go to a fallout shelter.
>> Hmm-mm.
>> I remember my
neighbor growing
up in Dearborn Heights,
Michigan.
He built a fallout
shelter in his basement,
and everybody laughed at him.
But whenever there was tension,
everybody wanted
to go down there.
>> Do you remember the
Twilight Zone  episode?
>> It was one of the greatest.
>> Yes, yeah, yes.
>> One of the greatest.
Scary times.
>> Yes, we are in scary times.
But again, I believe we
as Americans can
transcend scary times.
We should not be
afraid of the future.
We should be embracing
the challenge
and getting ready
beforehand because, in fact,
the act of getting ready
for it can very well
prevent it from happening.
>> Instant poll.
How many people think we
should spend the money
and insulate the grid even
though it's $50 million?
Almost universal.
It probably is.
Almost everybody did that.
>> Yes.
>> Even if it never happens,
what great peace of mind.
>> Did you ever have your
house insurance lapse
and you know there's a
hurricane wandering above?
>> No, thank god,
I didn't have that.
>> That happened to me once,
and I'm staring at the ceiling.
There was no peace of mind
until I did get the insurance
policy straightened out.
We only need that insurance
policy the day after,
but if you don't have it...
>> Yeah.
>> ...and you're driving...
>> You're up the creek.
>> Well, all American
should realize we need an
insurance policy.
>> Yeah, we do.
And other countries I
think would follow suit...
>> Yes.
>> ...if they saw what we did.
>> And it might even
dissuade the lunatics,
the outright lunatics in Iran
and North Korea --
don't even try it.
>> Right. And then
the next problem is,
since we've taken care of the
grid, now we've got to take care
of their ability to
launch to hit us on land.
>> That's a foreign
policy and that's...
>> That's another issue.
>> ...we address aggressively.
>> Yeah, it is another issue.
Tell us about your website and
where people can get your book.
>> The book is called
One Second After,
available on any
Internet bookseller.
>> It's a great read...
>> Thank you.
>> ...because you
did it as a novel,
but you still get
the message across.
>> I was inspired by the
great classics of the Cold War
like  Alas Babylon,
Testament,  and I tried
to explain what would
happen just
in a typical small
town for one year.
The book is called
One Second After.
There's also a website,
onesecondafter.com.
I also urge -- just go out
and just do general research.
Look up EMP.
Look up a site by a remarkable
gentleman named Rollins who puts
out a lot of information.
The information is out there
and it's spreading like crazy
in the last year or two
which gives me optimism.
>> Website?
>> Website, onesecondafter.com.
>> Super. Simple as that.
William, I hope we never
have this happen to us,
but I got to tell you, when it
does, the first thing I'll think
about is your book and you
because you were the first
person to publically come out
and really talk about
the dangers of this.
Others are doing it
now, as you know.
Michael Maloof is
coming out with his...
>> Yes.
>> ...and things like that.
>> Good book.
That is a good book.
>> They're starting to pick up
on what you started and, again,
I hope to God, we never have
to worry about it but, you now,
you've painted a picture for us,
a blueprint on what
we should do.
And I would hope somebody
in a presidential campaign,
maybe in 2016, comes forward
and says, "You know what?
We wasted money on
bailouts, you know.
We gave out $700
billion dollars,
a trillion billion dollars.
We're going to spend 50
measly billion dollars
and protect America.
And that's what we need to do.
>> And on the other side of
the coin, George, you were one
of the first to call me up
to do a nationwide interview,
and I thank God you are
getting the word out.
>> Well, we are lucky enough
to share the same editor,
Bob Gleason, at RUF Forge.
>> Great guy.
>> And Bob called me up
one day with your story.
>> Hmm-mm.
>> And he said, "What
do you think of it?"
And I said, "It's phenomenal."
>> Hmm-mm.
>> And he said, "Do you think
he'd make a good guest?"
And I said, "Duh."
And here you are.
And, yeah, I've got to tell you,
the response that we've gotten
from you has been phenomenal.
William Forstchen...
>> God bless you.
>> ...thank you very much.
>> Thank you so much.
Thank you.
[ Audience Applause ]
>> It is not a matter of if.
It's a matter of when.
Whether it's a nuke in the
atmosphere or some tragedy
from the sun, let's
hope we're ready.
Thanks for watching
Beyond Belief.
[ Audience Applause ]
[ Music ]
[ Silence ]